# task-1
In this task a scan was conducted for the open ports in my local network range. For the open port scan Nmap was used. My local IP range was known( by entering the command ipconfig in command prompt) and the scan for the available hosts is conducted (using nmap -sn scan). Then the active hosts are again checked for their specific open ports (by using nmap -sV scan, for a general stealth scan nmap -sS scan was used). The host TP link PTE indicates a roueter and other hosts include Skyworth digital technology, Cloud network technology-PTE(router). After this the target IP was scanned for it's open ports again(by using nmap -sS scan). The -sV scan is to understand what software is actually running on the open ports and help us in further testing, while -sS scan are used for stealth scan, where it sends TCP SYN packets to a target port and decides if target port is open or closed according to the reply sent by the target port(reply as SYN/ACK means open, and reply as RST means closed).
The open ports of the target IP were observed and their vulnerabilities were checked using (nmap --script vuln <target IP>).
As a result, it was observed that, out of 1000 ports 995 ports were not accessed or closed and the rest 5 ports were open and it's screen shots are available in the uploaded file.
The 5 open ports were namely: 135,139, 445, 902, 912; the first three ports are for windows hosts, RPC, SMB services respectively, while the last two are for VMware services. Along with this, in the vulnerability check the result was given saying that the SMB( server message block) scan was failed and is false which indicates that the SMB services are not allowing the nmap to scan it further and is not responding to the scan properly. This does not confirm that this service port is safe, instead it says that the service is just not reverting to the scan properly. The scans for SMB os discovery etc were also conducted but the services were not responding which can be a usual thing.
The network is now checked for the packet capture in wireshark. Along with the other packets, data packets under TCP with the target IP are found with SYN/ACK responses. This indicates that the packets were sent to an open port of the target IP address and the response by the open ports were recorded as SYN/ACK. 
The open ports with potential risks have been identified. 
The ports with potential risks are mostly the public accessible ports like- 80 ( http), 22 (SSH), 139(NetBios), 445(SMB), 912(Apex relay service), 902(VMware service console). All these ports are used major source of exploits in order to disrupt the internals of a system or spy on a system. 139, 445 are used by for SMB exploits while the 912, 902 are used mostly for remote command execution on the target system.
Thus, scans are conduted and the results are recorded as screen shots and text files.
They are compiled in a folder in this repository with the name -task 1.
